ARROW-14756: [Doc] Steps in making your first PR - Python bindings (#11825)
apache/arrow: docs/source/developers/guide/step_by_step/arrow_codebase.rst

.. on the type of the problem (simple binding, adding a
.. new feature, writing a test, …).

.. _arrow-codebase:

********************************
Working on the Arrow codebase 🧐
********************************

Finding your way around Arrow
=============================

The Apache Arrow repository includes implementations for
most of the libraries for which Arrow is available.

Languages like GLib (``c_glib/``), C++ (``cpp/``), C# (``csharp/``),
Go (``go/``), Java (``java/``), JavaScript (``js/``),
Julia (``julia/``), MATLAB (``matlab/``, Python (``python/``),
R (``r/``) and Ruby (``ruby/``) have their own subdirectories in
the main folder as written here.

Rust has its own repository available `here <https://github.com/apache/arrow-rs>`_.

In the **language-specific subdirectories** you can find the code
connected to that language. For example:

- The ``python/`` folder includes ``pyarrow/`` folder which contains
  the code for the pyarrow package and requirements files that you
  need when building pyarrow.

  The ``pyarrow/`` includes Python and Cython code.

  The ``pyarrow/`` also includes ``test/`` folder where all the tests
  for the pyarrow modules are located.

> - The ``R/`` folder holds the code and the documentation for the R package.
> 
>   The documentation can be found in ``vignettes/`` and in ``R/`` folder
>   you can find the reference documentation.
> 
>   The ``R/`` folder also includes tests for the R package
>   in ``tests/`` and ``extra-tests/``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ``r/`` directory contains the R package.
```
I'd cut this down to just this - there are a few other things than code and documentation in the R package, but it's all fairly standard R package structure stuff, and it'd be easier to not mention it than list it all.

Other subdirectories included in the arrow repository are:

> - ``ci/`` contains code connected to the continuous integration work.
> - ``dev/`` contains scripts useful to developers when packaging,
>   testing, or committing to Arrow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``ci/`` contains scripts used by the various CI jobs.
- ``dev/`` contains scripts useful to developers when packaging,
  testing, or committing to Arrow, as well as definitions for on-demand CI tasks.
- ``.github/`` contains workflows run on GitHub CI, triggered by certain actions
 such as opening a PR
```
Just to make this a little clearer, I'd

- ``docs/`` contains most of the documentation. Read more on
  :ref:`documentation`.

> - ``format/`` contains the Arrow Protocol files.

Reviewer: Could you add a brief description of what Arrow Protocol files are? I have no idea what they are! :)

Author: Ha, me neither =) Will look into it ...

> Other files included in Arrow are connected to either GitHub,
> CI builds or Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This isn't strictly true; some files are to do with licenses, the code of conduct, etc.  I'd just cut this out - people can take a look at the files if they want to know what they are, but this knowledge isn't essential for them being able to submit a PR.

Bindings, features, fixes and tests
===================================

You can read through this section to get some ideas on how
to work around the library on the issue you have.

Depending on the problem you want to solve (adding a simple
binding, adding a feature, writing a test, …) there are
different ways to get the necessary information. 

**For all the cases** you can help yourself with
searching for functions via some kind of search tool.
In our experience there are two good ways:

#. Via **GitHub Search** in the Arrow repository (not a forked one)
   This way is great as GitHub lets you search for function
   definitions and references also.

#. **IDE** of your choice.

> **Binding**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Bindings**
```

> Binding means that the function in the C++ implementation is connected from 
> other languages (C (Glib), MATLAB, Python, R or Ruby). Once a 
> function is defined in the C++ we connect it from other languages
> so that it can be used there also.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term "binding" is used to refer to a function in the C++ implementation which 
can be called from a function in another language.  After a function is defined in
 C++ we must create the binding manually to use it in that implementation.
```

.. note::

> 	There is much you can learn with checking **Pull Requests**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	There is much you can learn by checking **Pull Requests**
```

> 	and **unit tests for similar issues**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	and **unit tests** for similar issues.  
```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Python

      **Adding a fix in Python**

>       If you are doing a correction of an existing function, the
>       easiest way is to run Python interactively or run Jupyter
>       Notebook and research
>       the issue until you understand what needs to be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If you are updating an existing function, the
      easiest way is to run Python interactively or run Jupyter
      Notebook and research
      the issue until you understand what needs to be done.
```

      After, you can search on GitHub for the function name, to
      see where the function is defined.

      Also, if there are errors produced, the errors will most
      likely point you towards the file you need to take a look at.

      **Python - Cython - C++**
       

>       It is quite likely that you will bump into Cython code when
>       working on Python issues. Less likely is that C++ code would
>       need some correction, but it can happen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      It is quite likely that you will bump into Cython code when
      working on Python issues. It's less likely is that the C++ code 
      needs updating, though it can happen.
```

      As mentioned before, the underlying code is written in C++.
      Python then connects to it via Cython. If you
      are not familiar with it you can ask for help and remember,
      **look for similar Pull Requests and JIRA issues!**

      **Adding tests**

      There are some issues where only tests are missing. Here you
      can search for similar functions and see how the unit tests for
      those functions are written and how they can apply in your case.

>       This also hold true for adding a test for the issue you have solved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      This also holds true for adding a test for the issue you have solved.
```

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. SCOPE OF THIS SECTION
.. This section is intended to give some ideas on how to
.. work and find way around the Arrow library depending
.. on the type of the problem (simple binding, adding a
.. new feature, writing a test, …).

.. _arrow-codebase:

********************************
Working on the Arrow codebase 🧐
********************************

Finding your way around Arrow
=============================

The Apache Arrow repository includes implementations for
most of the libraries for which Arrow is available.

Languages like GLib (``c_glib/``), C++ (``cpp/``), C# (``csharp/``),
Go (``go/``), Java (``java/``), JavaScript (``js/``),
Julia (``julia/``), MATLAB (``matlab/``, Python (``python/``),
R (``r/``) and Ruby (``ruby/``) have their own subdirectories in
the main folder as written here.

> Rust has it's own repository available `here <https://github.com/apache/arrow-rs>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rust has its own repository available `here <https://github.com/apache/arrow-rs>`_.
```

In the **language-specific subdirectories** you can find the code
connected to that language. For example:

- The ``python/`` folder includes ``pyarrow/`` folder which contains
  the code for the pyarrow package and requirements files that you
  need when building pyarrow.

  The ``pyarrow/`` includes all pyarrow modules, for example
  ``compute.py`` for the ``pyarrow.compute`` module. The ``pyarrow/``

>   includes Python and Cython code.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence of this paragraph is maybe not needed? (the second one about pyarrow including both python and cython is certainly useful)

  The ``pyarrow/`` also includes ``test/`` folder where all the tests
  for the pyarrow modules are located.

- The ``R/`` folder holds the code and the documentation for the R package.

  The documentation can be found in ``vignettes/`` and in ``R/`` folder
  you can find the reference documentation.

  The ``R/`` folder also includes tests for the R package
  in ``tests/`` and ``extra-tests/``.

Other subdirectories included in the arrow repository are:

> - ``ci/`` contains code connected to the CI work.

Reviewer 2: I would spell out CI in full

- ``dev/`` contains scripts useful to developers when packaging,
  testing, or committing to Arrow.
- ``docs/`` contains most of the documentation. Read more on
  :ref:`documentation`.
- ``format/`` contains the Arrow Protocol files.

Other files included in Arrow are connected to either GitHub,

> CI builds, docker or Archery.

Reviewer 2: Archery is included in `/dev`, which was already mentioned above? (also, in general for readers here, it will not be clear what "archery" is)

Bindings, features, fixes and tests
===================================

You can read through this section to get some ideas on how
to work around the library on the issue you have.

Depending on the problem you want to solve (adding a simple
binding, adding a feature, writing a test, …) there are
different ways to get the necessary information. 

**For all the cases** you can help yourself with
searching for functions via some kind of search tool.
In our experience there are two good ways:

#. Via **GitHub Search** in the Arrow repository (not a forked one)
   This way is great as GitHub lets you search for function
   definitions and references also.

#. **IDE** of your choice.

**Binding**

> Binding means that the function in the C++ is connected from 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Binding means that the function in the C++ implementation is connected from 
```

other languages (C (Glib), MATLAB, Python, R or Ruby). Once a 
function is defined in the C++ we connect it from other languages
so that it can be used there also.

.. note::
	There is much you can learn with checking **Pull Requests**
	and **unit tests for similar issues**.  

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Python

      **Adding a fix in Python**

      If you are doing a correction of an existing function, the

>       easiest way is to run Python interactively or run Jupyter
>       Notebook from the Python folder in Arrow and research

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      easiest way is to run Python interactively or run Jupyter
      Notebook and research
```

What's the reason you would run it specifically from that directory?

Author: Lack of understanding from my side I would say.
